DKP Upgrade overview (#4204)
mesosphere/dcos-docs-site: pages/dkp/kommander/2.2/dkp-upgrade/index.md

---
layout: layout.pug
navigationTitle: DKP Upgrade
title: How to upgrade DKP via CLI
menuWeight: 8
excerpt: Upgrade DKP to the latest version and benefit from the full DKP experience.
beta: false
---

This section describes how to upgrade your environment to the latest version of DKP.

> The upgrade process represents an important step of your environment's lifecycle, as it ensures that you benefit from the latest improvements, enhanced management of clusters and better performance.

Reviewer: I'm an oxford comma adherent. :-) 
```suggestion
The upgrade process represents an important step of your environment's lifecycle, as it ensures that you benefit from the latest improvements, enhanced management of clusters, and better performance.
```

> When upgrading DKP, you must follow several steps that differ depending on your setup. The following indications specify which steps to follow if you are running a stand-alone cluster (Management cluster) or a multi-cluster environment (Management Cluster with Attached or Managed Clusters).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When upgrading DKP, you must follow several steps that differ depending on your setup. The following indications specify which steps to follow if you are running a stand-alone cluster (Management cluster only) or a multi-cluster environment (Management Cluster with Attached or Managed Clusters).
```

> <p class="message--warning"><strong>WARNING: </strong>Upgrade your Platform and Catalog Applications before upgrading Konvoy and Kubernetes. Some applications of the previous release do not support Kubernetes 1.22, and upgrading Kubernetes to 1.22 is be part of the Konvoy upgrade.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<p class="message--warning"><strong>WARNING: </strong>Upgrade your Platform and Catalog Applications before upgrading Konvoy. Some applications in the previous release do not support Kubernetes 1.22, and upgrading Kubernetes to 1.22 is part of the Konvoy upgrade process.
```

</p>

## Understand the upgrade process

The overall process for upgrading to the latest version of DKP has the following high-level steps:

1.  [Upgrade Kommander][upgrade-kommander]. This takes place in your Management Cluster and includes the upgrade of your Platform Applications in that cluster.

> 1.  [Upgrade your Workspaces][upgrade-workspaces] on a per-Workspace basis, if your environment has additional Workspaces (with Managed or Attached clusters).

Reviewer 2: This and the next step technically are valid only for Enterprise users (Essential does not include multicluster). Does this mean we would want separate upgrade pages for Essential and Enterprise? @cmastr

> 1.  [Upgrade your Workspaces][upgrade-workspaces] on a per-Workspace basis, if your environment has additional Workspaces (with Managed or Attached clusters).

Author: Hi! I see two options here: 
A. I add text at the beginning of that apply steps for multi-cluster environments specifying this only for Enterprise only, like this:
```suggestion
1.  For Enterprise customers only: [Upgrade your Workspaces][upgrade_workspaces] on a per-Workspace basis.
```
B. I leave this page as it is including all steps and add the Enterprise tag on top. Then, I create a copy of this document for Essential and delete these steps. 
I like B better, but I am not sure if we want to do that yet, as we were planning the major restructuring of our site for 2.3?
@cmastr I leave the decision up to you, since you have the picture more in mind than I do :)

1.  [Upgrade your Catalog applications][catalog-apps], if your environment has additional Workspaces (with Managed and Attached clusters).

1.  [Upgrade Konvoy][upgrade-konvoy]:

    - **Upgrade Konvoy’s CAPI components**. This upgrades the CAPI controllers, which only run on the Management Cluster.
    - **Upgrade the Core Addons**. This upgrades multiple addons such as CSI, CNI, Cluster Autoscaler, and Node Feature Discovery. If you are running other clusters than the Management cluster, upgrade the core addons on each additional cluster as well.
    - **Upgrade the Kubernetes version**. This upgrades your cluster’s control plane & node pools. If you are running other clusters than the Management cluster, upgrade the Kubernetes version on each additional cluster as well.

[upgrade-kommander]: /dkp/kommander/2.2/dkp-upgrade/upgrade-kommander/
[upgrade-workspaces]:

> [catalog-apps]: ../workspaces/applications/catalog-applications/

Reviewer 2: this should link to catalog apps upgrade page (once it exists)

---
layout: layout.pug

> navigationTitle: DKP Upgrade

Reviewer 3: I think both of these should be Upgrade DKP

When upgrading DKP, you must follow several steps that differ depending on your setup. The following indications specify which steps to follow if you are running a stand-alone cluster (Management cluster only) or a multi-cluster environment (Management Cluster with Attached or Managed Clusters).

<p class="message--warning"><strong>WARNING: </strong>Upgrade your Platform and Catalog Applications before upgrading Konvoy. Some applications in the previous release do not support Kubernetes 1.22, and upgrading Kubernetes to 1.22 is part of the Konvoy upgrade process.
</p>

## Understand the upgrade process

The overall process for upgrading to the latest version of DKP has the following high-level steps:

1.  [Upgrade Kommander][upgrade_kommander]. This takes place in your Management Cluster and includes the upgrade of your Platform Applications in that cluster.

1.  [Upgrade your Workspaces][upgrade-workspaces] on a per-Workspace basis, if your environment has additional Workspaces (with Managed or Attached clusters).

> 1.  [Upgrade all DKP Catalog applications][catalog_apps] that may be deployed to any Workspaces or Projects.

Author: ```suggestion
1.  For Enterprise customers only: [Upgrade all DKP Catalog applications][catalog_apps] deployed to any Workspaces or Projects.
```

## Understand the upgrade process

For this release, you perform the upgrade sequentially beginning with DKP Kommander and then moving to DKP Konvoy.

When upgrading DKP, the process is different depending on whether you run a stand-alone Management Cluster, or a multi-cluster environment that includes a combination of a Management cluster and managed or attached workspace clusters.

Start with your Management Cluster in Kommander, and then, if more than one exists, proceed workspace by workspace until complete. You can then move to upgrading Konvoy, cluster by cluster.

The overall process for upgrading to the latest version of DKP is done on each Workspace or cluster, with the following processes:

   For **Kommander**, on your Management Cluster:

1.  [**Upgrade Kommander**][upgrade_kommander], which upgrades all Platform Applications.

    If you do not have any managed or attached clusters, skip to upgrading Konvoy on your Management Cluster.

>     ```

Author: ```suggestion
```

1.  [**Upgrade all DKP Catalog applications**][catalog_apps] deployed to any Workspaces or Projects.

1.  [**Verify any Custom Catalog applications**][custom_apps] and ensure they are compatible with the Kubernetes version included in the [new release][release_notes].

   For **Konvoy**, on your Management Cluster:

1.  [**Upgrade Konvoy’s CAPI components**][upgrade_konvoy_capi]. This upgrades the CAPI controllers, which only run on the Management Cluster.

1.  [**Upgrade the Core Addons**][upgrade_konvoy_core]. This upgrades multiple addons such as CSI, CNI, Cluster Autoscaler, and Node Feature Discovery.

1.  [**Upgrade the Kubernetes version**][upgrade_konvoy_kubernetes]. This upgrades your cluster’s control plane and node pools.

    If you do not have any managed or attached clusters, you have finished the upgrade process and can start testing your environment. If you have managed or attached clusters, continue with the next section.
    

   For **Konvoy**, on your Managed Clusters:

1.  [**Upgrade the Core Addons**][upgrade_konvoy_core]. This upgrades multiple addons such as CSI, CNI, Cluster Autoscaler, and Node Feature Discovery.

> 1.  [**Upgrade the Kubernetes version**][upgrade_konvoy_kubernetes]. This upgrades your cluster’s control plane and node pools. You may also want to upgrade your Kubernetes version on any Attached clusters.

Author: ```suggestion
1.  [**Upgrade the Kubernetes version**][upgrade_konvoy_kubernetes]. This upgrades your cluster’s control plane and node pools. We recommend you upgrade your Kubernetes version on any attached clusters.
```

---
layout: layout.pug
navigationTitle: Upgrade DKP
title: How to upgrade DKP via CLI
menuWeight: 8
excerpt: Upgrade DKP to the latest version
beta: false
---

> The DKP upgrade represents an important step of your environment's lifecycle, as it ensures that you are up-to-date with the latest features and can benefit from the latest improvements, enhanced cluster management, and better performance. This section describes how to upgrade your networked, air-gapped or on-prem environment to the latest version of DKP.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The DKP upgrade represents an important step of your environment's lifecycle, as it ensures that you are up-to-date with the latest features and can benefit from the most recent improvements, enhanced cluster management, and better performance. This section describes how to upgrade your networked, air-gapped or on-prem environment to the latest version of DKP.
```

> The DKP upgrade represents an important step of your environment's lifecycle, as it ensures that you are up-to-date with the latest features and can benefit from the most recent improvements, enhanced cluster management, and better performance. This section describes how to upgrade your networked, air-gapped or on-prem environment to the latest version of DKP.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The DKP upgrade represents an important step of your environment's lifecycle, as it ensures that you are up-to-date with the latest features and can benefit from the most recent improvements, enhanced cluster management, and better performance. This section describes how to upgrade your networked, air-gapped, or on-prem environment to the latest version of DKP.
```

Reviewer 5: "Oxford comma" usage - don't skip the last one.
Stealing this, but it's funny:
Let's eat Grandpa!
Let's eat, Grandpa!
Commas save lives.

## Understand the upgrade process

For this release, you perform the upgrade sequentially beginning with DKP Kommander and then moving to DKP Konvoy.

> When upgrading DKP, the process is different depending on if you run a stand-alone Management Cluster, or if you run a multi-cluster environment that includes a combination of a Management Cluster and Workspace Clusters (Attached or Managed Clusters). 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
When upgrading DKP, the process is different depending on whether you run a stand-alone Management Cluster, or a multi-cluster environment that includes a combination of a Management Cluster and Workspace Clusters. This can include both attached and managed clusters. 
```

> When upgrading DKP, the process is different depending on whether you run a stand-alone Management Cluster, or a multi-cluster environment that includes a combination of a Management Cluster and Workspace Clusters. This can include both attached and managed clusters. 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
When upgrading DKP, the process is different depending on whether you run a stand-alone Management Cluster, or a multi-cluster environment that includes a combination of a Management cluster and managed or attached workspace clusters.
```

> Start with your Management Cluster in Kommander, and then proceed, Workspace by Workspace, if any. Then you can move to upgrading Konvoy, cluster by cluster.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Start with your Management Cluster in Kommander, and then proceed, Workspace by Workspace, if more than one exists. Then you can move to upgrading Konvoy, cluster by cluster.
```

> Start with your Management Cluster in Kommander, and then proceed, Workspace by Workspace, if more than one exists. Then you can move to upgrading Konvoy, cluster by cluster.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Start with your Management Cluster in Kommander, and then, if more than one exists, proceed workspace by workspace until complete. You can then move to upgrading Konvoy, cluster by cluster.
```

> The overall process for upgrading to the latest version of DKP is done on each Workspace or cluster, and has the following high-level steps.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The overall process for upgrading to the latest version of DKP is done on each Workspace or cluster, with the following processes:
```

   For **Kommander**, on your Management Cluster:

1.  [**Upgrade Kommander**][upgrade_kommander], which upgrades all Platform Applications.

>     If you do not have any Managed or Attached Clusters, skip to upgrading Konvoy on your Management Cluster.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    If you do not have any managed or attached clusters, skip to upgrading Konvoy on your Management Cluster.
```

Reviewer 5: Might need to double-check, but I'm 95% sure we shouldn't be capitalizing managed or attached clusters.

>     

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    ```

Reviewer 5: extra space

   For **Kommander**, on your Workspaces (which include Management and Managed clusters):

> 1.  [**Upgrade Kommander on your Workspaces**][upgrade_workspaces], which upgrades all Platform Applications on your Workspace Clusters (Workspace Clusters can include Attached and Managed Clusters).

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
1.  [**Upgrade Kommander on your Workspaces**][upgrade_workspaces], which upgrades all Platform Applications on your managed or attached workspace clusters.
```

1.  [**Upgrade all DKP Catalog applications**][catalog_apps] deployed to any Workspaces or Projects.

> 1.  [**Verify any Custom Catalog applications**][custom_apps] and ensure they are compatible with the current Kubernetes version.

Reviewer: 'current Kubernetes version' is ambiguous.   I think we should point at the release notes and say something like:

```suggestion
1.  [**Verify any Custom Catalog applications**][custom_apps] and ensure they are compatible with the Kubernetes version included in the new release.
```

> 1.  [**Verify any Custom Catalog applications**][custom_apps] and ensure they are compatible with the Kubernetes version included in the new release.

Author: ```suggestion
1.  [**Verify any Custom Catalog applications**][custom_apps] and ensure they are compatible with the Kubernetes version included in the [new release][release_notes].
```

   For **Konvoy**, on your Management Cluster:

1.  [**Upgrade Konvoy’s CAPI components**][upgrade_konvoy_capi]. This upgrades the CAPI controllers, which only run on the Management Cluster.

1.  [**Upgrade the Core Addons**][upgrade_konvoy_core]. This upgrades multiple addons such as CSI, CNI, Cluster Autoscaler, and Node Feature Discovery.

> 1.  [**Upgrade the Kubernetes version**][upgrade_konvoy_kubernetes]. This upgrades your cluster’s control plane & node pools.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
1.  [**Upgrade the Kubernetes version**][upgrade_konvoy_kubernetes]. This upgrades your cluster’s control plane and node pools.
```

    If you do not have any Managed or Attached Clusters, you have finished the upgrade process and can start testing your environment. If you have Managed Clusters, continue with the next section.
    

> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

   For **Konvoy**, on your Managed Clusters:

1.  [**Upgrade the Core Addons**][upgrade_konvoy_core]. This upgrades multiple addons such as CSI, CNI, Cluster Autoscaler, and Node Feature Discovery.

> 1.  [**Upgrade the Kubernetes version**][upgrade_konvoy_kubernetes]. This upgrades your cluster’s control plane & node pools. You may also want to upgrade your Kubernetes version on any Attached clusters.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
1.  [**Upgrade the Kubernetes version**][upgrade_konvoy_kubernetes]. This upgrades your cluster’s control plane and node pools. You may also want to upgrade your Kubernetes version on any Attached clusters.
```

> 

Reviewer 5: "May also want to..." - please check with an Eng SME on this. I'm thinking this might be recommended behavior, in which case we should say "We recommend you upgrade..." here. It's a stronger statement than "you might want to", but not as strong as "you must".
